Create guest-accounts.rst (#3050)
mattermost/docs: source/help/getting-started/managing-members.rst

Inviting Team Members
---------------------

> If enabled by your System Admin, you can add people to your team in one of three ways: You can send a direct invite; you can share a public team invite link; or if they already have an account on the server, you can add them to the team yourself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have the required permissions, you can add people to your team via a direct invite, a public team invite link, or if they already have an account on the server you can add them to the team yourself. 
```

> From version 5.16 your System Administrator can enable guest access to your server.  A guest is a special role that is restricted to only the channels they have been invited to. When this is enabled, you can invite guests or users external to the organization such as vendors or customers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From version 5.16, your System Administrator can enable guest access to your server.  A guest is a special role that is restricted to only the channels they have been invited to. When this is enabled, you can invite guests or users external to the organization such as vendors or customers. 
```

> Additionally as of version 5.16, your System Admin can enable guest access to your server. If this is enabled, you can invite guests, or users external to the organization such as vendor or customers.  A guest is a special role that is restricted to only the channels they have been invited to. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From version 5.16 your System Administrator can enable guest access to your server.  A guest is a special role that is restricted to only the channels they have been invited to. When this is enabled, you can invite guests or users external to the organization such as vendors or customers. 
```

Direct Invites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your team's server directly to the invited person's email address. A link within the invitation directs them to an account creation page. Invitation links sent by email expire after 48 hours and can be used only one time. A System Admin can invalidate all active invitation links via **System Console > Security > Sign Up > Invalidate pending email invites** in prior versions or **System Console** > **Authentication** > **Signup** > **Invalidate pending email invites** in versions after 5.12.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your team's server directly to the invited person's email address. A link within the invitation directs them to an account creation page. Invitation links sent by email expire after 48 hours and can be used only one time. A System Administrator can invalidate all active invitation links via **System Console > Authentication > Signup > Invalidate pending email invites** or, in versions prior to 5.12, **System Console > Security > Sign Up > Invalidate pending email invites**.
```

> **To send a direct invite**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To send a direct invite**
```

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 
3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**.  

> 4. In the **Invite People** type an email for the person you want to add. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Invite People** field add the email address of the person you want to add. 
```

5. Click **Invite Members**. 

> **To send a invite to a Guest**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To send an invite to a guest**
```

> **To send a direct invite**

Reviewer 2: Some of these lists are not rendering as a list.

Author: Should all be fixed now.

> 1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click your username at the top of the Navigation Panel.
```

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 
3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Guests**.  

> 4. In the **Invite People** type an email for the guest you want to add. You can add multiple emails to invite more than one guest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Invite People** field add the email address of guest you want to add. You can add multiple email addresses to invite more than one guest.
```

> 1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click your username at the top of the Navigation Panel.
```

5. Specify the channels the guest will have access to.
6. [Optional] Add a custom message to be included in the invitation to the guest. 
5. Click **Invite Guests**. 

.. note:: 

>    You need the permission to invite guests to see the **Invite Guest** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you aren't able to see the **Invite Guests** option, confirm with your System Administrator that you have the correct permissions.
```

> **To send a direct invite in versions prior to 5.16**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To send a direct invite in versions prior to 5.16**
```

Inviting Team Members
---------------------

If you have the required permissions, you can add people to your team via a direct invite, a public team invite link, or if they already have an account on the server you can add them to the team yourself. 

> From version 5.16, your System Administrator can enable guest access to your server.  A guest is a special role that is restricted to only the channels they have been invited to. When this is enabled, you can invite guests or users external to the organization such as vendors or customers. 

Reviewer 3: Propose linking to guest accounts for more info

Reviewer 3: E.g. something like 

```suggestion
From version 5.16, your System Administrator can `enable guest access to your server <link>_`.  A guest is a special role that is restricted to only the channels they have been invited to. When this is enabled, you can invite guests or users external to the organization such as vendors or customers. 
```

Direct Invites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your team's server directly to the invited person's email address. A link within the invitation directs them to an account creation page. Invitation links sent by email expire after 48 hours and can be used only one time. A System Administrator can invalidate all active invitation links via **System Console > Authentication > Signup > Invalidate pending email invites** or, in versions prior to 5.12, **System Console > Security > Sign Up > Invalidate pending email invites**.

**To send a direct invite**

1. Click your username at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 

> 3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**.  

Reviewer 3: Would a user not have an option to invite members and guests on this screen if they've clicked the "Invite People" modal?

Author: It is dependant on permissions for "invite guests".  If they do not have that permission, the user is taken directly to the "invite members" screen.

4. In the **Invite People** field add the email address of the person you want to add. 
5. Click **Invite Members**. 

**To send an invite to a guest**

1. Click your username at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 
3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Guests**.  
4. In the **Invite People** field add the email address of guest you want to add. You can add multiple email addresses to invite more than one guest.
5. Specify the channels the guest will have access to.

> 6. [Optional] Add a custom message to be included in the invitation to the guest. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. [Optional] Add a custom message to be included in the invitation to the guest. 
```

> 5. Click **Invite Guests**. 

Reviewer 2: This last step doesn't appear in a list format and has a wrong number.

.. note:: 

>    If you aren't able to see the **Invite Guests** option, confirm with your System Admin that you have the correct permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you aren't able to see the **Invite Guests** option, confirm with your System Administrator that you have the correct permissions.
```

Team Invite Link
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The team invite link is a unique URL that directs people to an account creation page for a team. A team invite link can be used by anyone and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team Admin or System Admin via **Team Settings > General > Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company-wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.

**To get a team invite link**

> 1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click your username at the top of the Navigation Panel.
```

> The team invite link is a unique URL that directs people to an account creation page for a team. A team invite link can be used by anyone and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team Admin or System Admin via **Team Settings > General > Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The team invite link is a unique URL that directs people to an account creation page for a team. A team invite link can be used by anyone and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team Admin or System Admin via **Team Settings > General > Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company-wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.
```

> **To get a team invite link**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To get a team invite link**
```

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 

> 3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If there is an option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**. 
```

> 4. Click  **Copy Link** button to save the URL to your clipboard and share it with those you want to invite to the team. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the **Copy Link** button to save the URL to your clipboard and share it with those you want to invite to the team. 
```

> **To get a team invite link in versions prior to 5.16**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To get a team invite link in versions prior to 5.16**
```

If someone you want to add to your team already has an account on the server, you can add them to your team without sending an invitation.

> **To add someone to your team**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To add someone to your team**
```

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 

> 3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If there is an option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**.  
```

> 4. In the **Invite People** search for the person you want to add. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they do not have an account on your server.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Invite People** menu search for the person you want to add. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they do not have an account on your server.  
```

5. Click **Invite Members**. 

> **To add existing guests to your team**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To add existing guests to your team**
```

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 
3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Guests**.  

> 4. In the **Invite People** search for the guest you want to add. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they do not have an account on your server.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Invite People** menu search for the guest you want to add. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they do not have an account on your server.  
```

5. Specify the channels the guest will have access to.
5. Click **Invite Guests**. 

.. note:: 

>    You need the permission to invite guests to see the **Invite Guest** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you aren't able to see the **Invite Guests** option, confirm with your System Admin that you have the correct permissions.
```

> **To add someone to your team in versions prior to 5.16**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To add someone to your team in versions prior to 5.16**
```

If someone you want to add to your team already has an account on the server, you can add them to your team without sending an invitation.

> **To add someone to your team**

Reviewer 3: Given the steps here and in the direct invite are similar, I'm wondering if there is benefit of combining them vs having in two separate sections?

Author: We had some feedback that it was a bit confusing in the UI.  I'd prefer to keep them separate until the invite flow has been updated to make adding more obvious in 5.18.

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 
3. If there is an option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Members**.  
4. In the **Invite People** menu search for the person you want to add. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they do not have an account on your server.  
5. Click **Invite Members**. 

**To add existing guests to your team**

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Invite People**. 
3. If there is a option to invite members and guests, choose **Invite Guests**.  
4. In the **Invite People** menu search for the guest you want to add. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they do not have an account on your server.  
5. Specify the channels the guest will have access to.

> 5. Click **Invite Guests**. 

Reviewer 2: This last step has a wrong number and does not appear in a list format.

.. note:: 

>    If you aren't able to see the **Invite Guests** option, confirm with your System Admin that you have the correct permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you aren't able to see the **Invite Guests** option, confirm with your System Administrator that you have the correct permissions.
```

User Roles
----------

> There are six types of user roles with different permission levels in Mattermost: System Admins, Team Admins, Channel Admins, Members, and Inactive accounts. To view a list of users on the team and what their roles are, Team Administrators can go to the three dot **Main Menu** and select **Manage Members**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are six types of user roles with different permission levels in Mattermost: System Admins, Team Admins, Channel Admins, Members, and Inactive accounts. To view a list of users on the team and what their roles are, Team Admins can go to the three dot **Main Menu** and select **Manage Members**.
```

> A System Admin can view and manage users in **System Console > Users**. They can search users by name, filter users by teams and filter to view other System Admins as well as inactive users.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A System Admin can view and manage users in **System Console > Users**. They can search users by name, filter users by teams, and filter to view other System Admins as well as inactive users.  
```

Guest
~~~~~~~

Guests are a role with restricted permissions, which allow organizations to collaborate with users outside of their organization and control what channels they are in an who they can collaborate with. 

Guests can: 
- Pin messages to channels.
- Use slash commands (with the exception of those used to invite members)
- Favorite channels
- Mute channels
- Update their account settings

Guests cannot: 
- Discover public channels
- Join open teams

> - Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel
```

- Ability to deactivate user accounts and to reactivate them
- Access to private channels, but only if given the link to the private channel

A System Admin can view and manage users in **System Console > Users**. They can search users by name, filter users by teams, and filter to view other System Admins as well as inactive users.  

Guest
~~~~~~~

> Guests are a role with restricted permissions, which allow organizations to collaborate with users outside of their organization and control what channels they are in an who they can collaborate with. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Guest is a role with restricted permissions, which allow organizations to collaborate with users outside of their organization, and control what channels they are in and who they can collaborate with. 
```

Guests can: 

> - Pin messages to channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Pin messages to channels
```
